Hello! Welcome to OpenAnnote. This program is designed to let you annotate texts and read others' annotations. Here is a brief manual to help you get started. 

=== READING TEXTS ===
 
After opening OpenAnnote, you are placed on the "Read" tab. This tab lets you read documents and annotations. (You can see what tab you're in at the top left of the screen.) The large white central panel is where the text you're reading will be. 

To load a document, click the "Open Document" menu on the top left of the screen. The file extension for OpenAnnote documents is ".oad". 

OpenAnnote divides texts into chapters. Within a chapter, you scroll up and down, and to change chapters, you use the "<" and ">" buttons at the bottom of the screen, or type the chapter you want to jump to in the box between them. 

To open annotations, click the "Open Annotations" menu on the right side of the screen. From there, you can load OpenAnnote annotation sets onto your text. The file extension for OpenAnnote annotations is ".ano". 
 
In the "Read" tab, annotations appear as blue highlights. If you click highlighted text, the associated annotation will appear on the right side of the screen. You can load multiple annotation sets onto a single document. 
 
=== EDITING AND CREATING ANNOTATIONS === 

In order to edit annotations, move over to the "Edit Annotations" tab. The "Read" and "Edit Annotations" tabs look similar, but they load files separately, so it'll be blank when you first start up. To start, load a document in the "Open Document" menu. 
 
To create an annotation, highlight a selection of text you want to annotate. After that, click the "+" button, and write your annotation on the sidebar on the right side of the screen. When you're done with your annotation, be sure to click the "Save" button at the bottom of the annotation panel. You can edit annotations by clicking on the highlight (green in the "Edit Annotations" tab) and writing in the annotation panel. When you're done, you can "Save" the edited annotation or "Delete" it. 
 
When you've created all the annotations you need, click the "Save" menu on the top right of the screen. This saves all of your written annotations as one "Annotation Set", and exports your annotation set as a OpenAnnote Annotation file. 
 
To start over, click the "Clear" button. This gets rid of all your current annotations and gives you a fresh new annotation set to work with. 

=== IMPORTING AND EDITING DOCUMENTS === 

Finally, in order to import a document into OpenAnnote so it can be annotted, click on the "Edit Documents" tab. Fom there, you'll see a blank document panel. Write or copy your document into this panel. Use the "+" button to add a chapter, and use the "<" and ">" buttons to navigate between existing chapters. 
 
When you're done with your document, click the "Save" button in the top left of the screen to export your document as an OpenAnnote document file. 


 
Thank you for using OpenAnnote! 